So let's jump into our first bug, this is
a bug that our QA group identified for us.
And they said that, hey, and
when the users are interacting with it,
they can't actually delete
a rant from their timeline,
even though we have a delete button.
So let's jump in and see if we can
recreate, and fix that problem.
So here is our app,
let me just do a Refresh here to make
sure we have the latest running.
And I'm going to try and
delete this first rant that I made.
And as you can see, nothing happens.
Now, this is just my dev account, now,
whenever you're debugging something, it's
always a good idea to try and use real
data and real users whenever possible.
Because dev data can get all wonky and
weird with a lot of people
just trying new things.
So it's always a good idea to have a way
to like impersonate real users and
use real data.
So fortunately,
getRANTr actually has that, so
I'm going to actually jump in and
change out my user.
Now, you can do that by
going into your console, and
you have to stop the service from running,
and you just type in node import and
I have three users one, two and three.
I'm gonna switch to user two,
which is what I call my Keystone user and
now, I'm going to relaunch
the application with NPM start.
Now, if I reload getRANTr, I can see now,
this is my most prolific
user of get ranter.
Now this user has been trialing
getRANTr for some time and they've been
putting all of their their different
rants in here and that's been great.
And you can really see that my ad.
My advertising targeting
is right on the spot,
I am gonna make a mint with this thing.
But so let's try this again, let's say
that this user wanted to delete maybe
an unfortunate tweet and
remove it from their timeline.
But unfortunately they can't,
they experienced the same bug
that I was seeing in Dev.
So let's pop open our debugger and
see if we can figure it out.
So in Chrome, there's lots of different
ways you can pop up in the debugger.
It varies a little bit from Windows
to OS10, it might be F12 on Windows.
I think it's option Command I on OS10 or
you can always just right click and
say inspect.
There's lots of different
ways to open this up.
So I want to take a look at our console
and see what what all is going on here.
So when I try and delete something,
what happens in our debugger console?
Well, nothing like it looks just empty and
you see a flash happening on your screen.
And that's because the whole page
is reloading every time we do this.
So let's see if we can figure out what's
happening before the page reloads.
So here in the console, we can have
some controls about what's going on.
One of the things you can do
is you can preserve the log.
And what this is gonna do is it's going to
not clear out all of the things that have
happened between when pages have changed.
And helps you debug problems where a page
navigation is part of the problem.
So at this, let's try and
delete something.
Now, we can see a whole
bunch of things on this now,
we see a console message that was
printed at the start of the page.
We caught an error, uncaught error track
GS caught cannot read property destroy of
undefined, and then we navigated the page.
[SOUND] so
the first thing I kind of notice here is
that there's some noise here on this page,
it's showing this file
tracker all over the place.
And that's part of my infrastructure code,
that's something I don't really
need to worry about just yet.
So Chrome has this concept of
black boxing, where you can say,
infrastructure scripts that are not part
of some stuff you need to worry about.
You can tell Chrome to exclude them
from stack traces and reports.
So we're gonna navigate
in here to tracker and
notice that it's empty,
there's nothing in tracker.
If we go back to console, maybe we can
look at what's in rantListView, but
that's empty too.
And it's because these navigation
links that Chrome provides to you
happen to before a navigation event.
And so the pointers that it has are gone,
those specific instances of
the scripts aren't loaded anymore.
And so the first thing we actually need
to fix here is this navigation before we
can really do anything at all.
So let's figure out why this
is navigating, well, so
rather than looking at the error.
Why don't we look at how the user
is doing this interaction.
So I'm going to start by
looking at the DOM itself.
I wanna look at this delete button,
so to do that,
there's a couple of
different ways we can do it.
We can thengrab this little selector
tool from the debugger panel and
just move on to the button that
we're looking to interact with.
And by clicking on it, it will bring
us up this full listing of all of
the entire document and
we can see how this is structured.
This is the HTML document
as interpreted by Chrome.
So we can, kinda move around this,
it'll hover other objects
as we interact on the page, so
you could locate other things.
What I specifically care about is I wanna
know what pieces of JavaScript care about
this button.
And so to do that, I can look at
this event listeners section, now,
this is really cool.
This show is you all of the pieces of
JavaScript, listening to this button or
maybe listening to this button, because
it's listening to one of its parents.
You can see the difference
between the button itself and
the parents by toggling
the ancestors checkbox.
If you uncheck ancestors, it will list
anything that is listening specifically
to this button, which is nothing.
But a very common pattern
in JavaScript and
a lot of JavaScript frameworks will be to
use a pattern called event delegation.
Where you're actually listening for
an event at a higher level, but
you really only care
when that thing got hit.
So if we consider the ancestors,
there's all of these different things
listening, somebody caring about blur,
click, error, popstates, submit,
unhandledrejection, a bunch of stuff.
All we care about is click, the user
is gonna click the Delete button, so
what's listening?
So there's three things listening
actually, we have a couple of things in
tracker listening, but if you recall,
that's framework code.
We don't need to worry about that.
And we have rantListView listening, now,
here's some of our code that
we actually care about.
So directly from here,
I can navigate in and
I can see where are we actually
listening to this code or to this event.
And so here's the event,
the event is using a jQuery syntax
event listener attaching to the event,
click with this callback.
And the event is using an event
delegation pattern to see
if did the thing that were
actually clicked on match?
The selector js-delete and if so, we're
gonna call some function called Delete.
Well, that seems okay,
why is it reloading?
If we go back to the elements themselves,
we see that button is inside of a form.
What happens when you click
a button inside of a form on HTML.
>> Submit actual list.
Post, it submits, it submits the form.
It might be a post, it might be a get,
it does the Submit action of the form.
And so nowhere in the code itself
are we actually stopping that default
action from happening.
So even though our JavaScript is running,
the page itself goes on with what
it's doing and doesn't stop it.
And so we need to add, we need to prevent
that default behavior of this event.
Now, it'd be great if we could
just make that change here.
We found the code,
I don't want to drop out of this view and
find it in my editor and
make the change and reload.
And we can do that with
a concept called work spaces, so
I want to actually edit this file live,
so I can tell Chrome.
Hey, this file that I'm looking
at is on my file system as well.
I do that by just opening
up the context menu and
I want to add a new
folder to my workspace.
Now, my workspace, you'll just point
at wherever you downloaded the stuff.
I downloaded getRANTr in Projects,
getRANTr, here's the root for
me and
I'm appointed at the source public folder.
When I do that Chrome will say,
hey, I'm asking for
the rights to talk to your file system
are you sure you want to do that?
And I do, and now, I can map this
file to an actual file on my drive.
So that pops up with the name and
it says this file as served from the web
server was called rantListViewjs.
And hey, I found a file called
rantListView.js on your file system and
that folder you just told me about,
is it the same thing?
And it is, so now,
I should be able to go directly
into this file and
make the changes I want.
And let's test to see if that works,
let's make a trivial change
just to see if it's working.
So I'm just going to interact
with this initialize function and
I'm going to add an alert.
And if I save that, if this change
actually went to the file system,
I should be able to just reload
the page and see my alert.
And hey, it works.
>> How did you,
get to the file on your computer?
Connecting the two, I miss that?
>> There's a two step process,
the first step is from your sources panel.
If you just right click
basically anywhere.
You select add folder to workspace,
adding the folder
to your workspace pops open navigation
on whatever system you're using.
And I selected the public folder
inside of the getRANTr directory.
What that ended up doing is you'll
see here in the sources panel.
There is now the public folder,
this workspace and
I could actually navigate directly and
see what all is in my file system.
The second step is from a file that
came down from the web server,
I can glue that together with something
in my local workspace by saying,
I've already fixed that one.
I don't think I can do it twice.
[LAUGH] It's like map file to file system
resource will be a third option in here.
And they'll bring up a little search panel
that's already populated with the name of
the file, you should just be able
to hit Enter and it finds it.
All right, so
I'm gonna remove this alert now,
because we actually don't want an alert.
But now we know that changes are going
directly against our source,
so now, we can fix this bug.
So the bug is that we're
not preventing the default.
So here, we only care about this event
really, if we're inside of this condition.
If we're inside if
(evt.target.matches|'js-delete')|.
So before we pass it on to do
whatever it is we wanna do,
let's call event.preventDefault.
Event.preventdefault is part of
the standard set of API's available to
us in the browser.
And it will tell the browser to not do
the default behavior that that event would
normally do.
We're gonna handle this entirely
ourselves with JavaScript.
So with that saved I should
be able to reload the page.
And if I take a look at
my console this time,
there's a ton of stuff in it because
I've had preserve log on a while.
So I'm gonna turn off preserve log now and
reload the page, and
should be all cleared out.
So now, if I try and
delete a rant from my timeline.
Now, there's still an error, but
I didn't reload the page anymore,
I fixed one step of this.